Dorgflow: git workflow for drupal.org patches
=============================================

Dorgflow is a set of commands that streamline your work with patches for issues
on drupal.org. With Dorgflow, you don't need to download and apply patches, and
creating patches and interdiffs is simplified. The only thing that Dorgflow
doesn't handle is posting your files back to an issue for review.

## Installation

Dorgflow is designed to be installed globally.

1. Either clone the repository or download a release and place it anywhere you
like.

2. In the dorgflow directory, install its dependencies with Composer:

    $ composer install --no-dev

(The --no-dev option omits the packages that are needed for testing.)

3. To make the command accessible, either:
  - symlink the file dorgflow into a folder that's in your path.
  - set the root folder of this repository into your path.

### Additional: For composer driven Drupal projects

If you're about to use Dorgflow in the context of a composer driver Drupal
project, where you e.g. want to use version 8.x-3.1 of a particular module for
staging and the production server, you may easily run into trouble setting up
your environment for drupal.org contributions controlled by dorgflow. For those
of you there is a composer plugin available which helps you manage those
environments: https://packagist.org/packages/lakedrops/dorgflow

## Usage

### Starting work on an issue

Start with your local git clone clean and up to date on a release branch, e.g.
8.3.x (for core) or 8.x-1.x (for contrib). We'll call this the *master branch*.

To start working on an issue, simply do:

    $ dorgflow https://www.drupal.org/node/12345

You can also just give the issue number. And it's fine to have anchor links from
the URL you're copy-pasting too, thus https://www.drupal.org/node/12345#new.

This creates a new git branch for you to work on. If there are patches on the
issue, it will also download them and make commits for them. So you'll have
something like this:

      * (12345-fix-bug) Patch from Drupal.org. Comment: 4; file: 12345-4.fix-bug.patch; fid 99999. Automatic commit by dorgflow.
      * Patch from Drupal.org. Comment: 2; file: 12345-1.fix-bug.permissions-author.patch; fid 88888. Automatic commit by dorgflow.
     /
    * (8.3.x) Issue 11111 by whoever.
    * Issue 22222 by whoever.

The branch name is formed from the issue number and title: 12345-fix-bug. You
may change this branch name if you wish, provided you keep the issue number and
hyphen prefix.

Each automatic patch commit gives you:
  - the index number of the comment the file was added with,
  - the URL of the comment,
  - the patch filename,
  - the patch file's entity ID.

You can now start work on your own fix to the issue!

### Working on an issue

Commit your work to the feature branch, as you would normally. Make as many
commits as you want, with whatever message you want.

You can see the whole of your work so far by doing:

    $ dorgflow diff

This is just a shorthand for doing a git diff against the master branch.

For a reminder of your feature branch and master branch, do:

    $ dorgflow status

### Updating your feature branch

If there are new patches on the issue on drupal.org, do:

    $ dorgflow update

This will create commits for the new patches on your branch.

In the situation that the feature branch has your own commits at the tip of it,
which have not been posted as a patch, these are moved to a separate branch.

This situation:

      * My commit.
      * (12345-fix-bug) Patch 2 from Drupal.org.
      * Patch 1 from Drupal.org.
     /
    * (8.3.x) Issue 11111 by whoever.
    * Issue 22222 by whoever.

becomes this:

      * (12345-fix-bug) Patch 3 from Drupal.org.
      | * (12345-fix-bug-forked-TIMESTAMP) My commit.
      |/
      * Patch 2 from Drupal.org.
      * Patch 1 from Drupal.org.
     /
    * (8.3.x) Issue 11111 by whoever.
    * Issue 22222 by whoever.

You should then manually merge the forked branch back into the feature branch to
preserve your work.

### Contributing your work

When you are ready to make a patch, just do:

    $ dorgflow

This will create a patch with a systematic filename, and also an interdiff file.
You can then upload these to the issue node on drupal.org.

The commit messages from the git log are output, either since the start of the
branch, or the last patch if there is one. You can copy-paste this to your
comment on drupal.org to explain your changes.

### Committing a patch (maintainers only)

If an issue is set to RTBC, and the corresponding feature branch is up to date
with the most recent patch, you can apply the changes to the master branch ready
to be committed:

    $ dorgflow apply

This puts git back on the master branch, and performs a squash merge so that all
the changes from the feature branch are applied and staged.

All you now need to is perform the git commit, using the command suggested by
the issue node's credit and committing section.

### Cleaning up

When you're completely done with this branch, you can do:

    $ dorgflow cleanup

This performs a checkout of the master branch, and deletes the feature branch.

Alternatively, you can clean up ALL feature branches that have been committed
with:

    $ dorgflow purge

This looks at all branches whose name is of the form 'ISSUE-description', and
deletes those where a master branch commit exists with that issue number in the
commit message.
